src/components/CONTEXT.md, before:

# Components Directory Context

This directory contains reusable React components used throughout the application.

## 🚨 BEFORE Creating New Components

**LLMs: Follow these steps BEFORE creating any new component:**

1. ✅ **Search for existing components first**
   ```
   grep_search: "export default function" in src/components/
   semantic_search: "component that displays [describe functionality]"
   ```

2. ✅ **Check if existing component can be extended**
   - Can you add a prop instead of creating new component?
   - Can you use composition (children props)?
   - Can you extract shared logic to a utility function?

3. ✅ **If creating new component:**
   - Make it generic and reusable (use props for customization)
   - Add TypeScript interface for props
   - Include error boundaries if rendering dynamic content
   - Follow naming convention: PascalCase (e.g., `ErrorDisplay.tsx`)
   - Export as default function

4. ✅ **Error Handling in Components**
   - Wrap renders with try-catch if processing external data
   - Use `<ErrorDisplay />` for error states
   - Provide fallback UI if content fails to load

## Purpose

Components are self-contained, reusable UI elements that can be imported and used in multiple pages or other components. They follow React best practices and maintain consistent styling with the glassmorphism design system.

## Current Adherence Status

✅ **Excellent (95%)**: All components are reusable with props  
✅ **Excellent (95%)**: ErrorDisplay component used consistently  
✅ **Excellent (95%)**: TypeScript interfaces defined for all props  
✅ **Good (90%)**: Error boundary pattern followed  

**No issues found** - Components follow all LLM coding principles

## Components Inventory

| Component | Reusable | Generic Props | Error Handling | Status |
|-----------|----------|---------------|----------------|--------|
| ErrorDisplay.tsx | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Built-in | 95% |
| CodeBlock.tsx | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 90% |
| Navigation.tsx | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 90% |
| Footer.tsx | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 85% |

**Average Compliance**: 90% - Excellent

## Key Files

### Core UI Components
- **`CodeBlock.tsx`** - Syntax-highlighted code display with copy functionality
- **`ErrorDisplay.tsx`** - Centralized error UI with compact/full modes and retry buttons
- **`Navigation.tsx`** - Main navigation bar with mega menu, topics dropdown, and links

## Component Patterns

### 1. Props Interface Pattern
```typescript
interface ComponentProps {
  prop1: string;
  prop2?: number;  // Optional props use ?
  onAction?: () => void;  // Event handlers
}

export default function Component({ prop1, prop2, onAction }: ComponentProps) {
  // Component logic
}
```

### 2. Error Handling Pattern
All components should handle errors gracefully:
```typescript
import { ErrorHandler, ErrorType } from '../utils/errorHandler';
import ErrorDisplay from './ErrorDisplay';

// Use try-catch for rendering errors
try {
  return <div>...</div>;
} catch (err) {
  return <ErrorDisplay error={err} />;
}
```

### 3. Styling Pattern
- Use Tailwind CSS classes
- Follow glassmorphism design system
- Use color palette from design system:
  - Backgrounds: `slate-950`, `slate-900`, `slate-800`
  - Accents: `blue-400`, `cyan-400`
  - Borders: `slate-700/50` (semi-transparent)

### 4. State Management
- Keep component state local with `useState`
- Pass state up via callbacks
- Don't store derived state

## Dependencies

### Internal
- `../utils/errorHandler` - Error handling utilities
- `../data/**/*.json` - Content data (Navigation only)

### External
- `lucide-react` - Icon components
- `react` - Core React functionality

## Component Responsibilities

### CodeBlock
- **Purpose**: Display syntax-highlighted code
- **Features**: Copy to clipboard, title support
- **Props**: `title?: string`, `children: string`
- **Styling**: Dark code block with syntax highlighting

### ErrorDisplay
- **Purpose**: Show user-friendly error messages
- **Features**: Compact/full modes, retry buttons, categorized errors
- **Props**: `error`, `onRetry?`, `showDetails?`, `compact?`
- **Usage**: Render errors instead of crashing

### Navigation
- **Purpose**: Main app navigation and routing
- **Features**: 
  - Mega menu with 9 QA topics
  - Dynamic links loading from JSON
  - Mobile hamburger menu
  - Sticky header with blur effect
- **Props**: `activeTab`, `setActiveTab`, `setSelectedTopic`
- **State**: Menu open/closed, topics dropdown, links array
- **Error Handling**: Loads links with fallback on failure

## How to Add a New Component

### Step 1: Create the file
```bash
touch src/components/NewComponent.tsx
```

### Step 2: Set up the structure
```typescript
import { useState } from 'react';
import { Icon } from 'lucide-react';

interface NewComponentProps {
  // Define props
}

export default function NewComponent({ }: NewComponentProps) {
  // State
  const [state, setState] = useState<Type>(initialValue);
  
  // Handlers
  const handleAction = () => {
    // Logic
  };
  
  // Render
  return (
    <div className="bg-slate-800/70 backdrop-blur-xl rounded-2xl p-6 border border-slate-700/50">
      {/* Content */}
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Step 3: Export and use
```typescript
// In parent component
import NewComponent from '../components/NewComponent';

<NewComponent prop1="value" />
```

### Step 4: Update this CONTEXT.md
Add your component to the "Key Files" section above.

## Common Modifications

### Adding a new icon to Navigation
1. Import from `lucide-react`
2. Add to topics array or use in UI
3. Follow existing icon usage patterns

### Changing Navigation links
1. Modify `/src/data/links/links.json`
2. No code changes needed (loaded dynamically)

### Modifying error display styles
1. Edit `ErrorDisplay.tsx` component
2. Update both compact and full modes
3. Maintain icon and color consistency

### Adding new code language to CodeBlock
1. Update syntax highlighting logic in `CodeBlock.tsx`
2. Add language-specific styles if needed

## Testing Guidelines

When modifying components:
1. Test in isolation (if possible)
2. Test with different prop combinations
3. Test error states
4. Test mobile responsive behavior
5. Verify keyboard navigation
6. Check accessibility (ARIA labels)

## Styling Guidelines

### Layout
- Use flexbox/grid for layouts
- Responsive with `md:`, `lg:` prefixes
- Mobile-first approach

### Spacing
- Consistent padding: `p-4`, `p-6`, `p-8`
- Gaps: `gap-2`, `gap-3`, `gap-4`
- Margins: `mb-2`, `mb-4`, `mb-6`

### Colors (Dark Theme)
```typescript
// Backgrounds
bg-slate-950      // Darkest
bg-slate-900      // Dark
bg-slate-800/70   // Translucent
bg-slate-700/50   // Borders

// Text
text-white        // Headings
text-slate-300    // Body
text-slate-400    // Muted

// Accents
text-blue-400     // Primary
text-cyan-400     // Secondary
text-green-400    // Success
text-red-400      // Error
```

### Effects
- Backdrop blur: `backdrop-blur-xl`
- Shadows: `shadow-2xl`, `shadow-blue-500/20`
- Transitions: `transition-all duration-300`
- Hover states: `hover:scale-105`, `hover:bg-slate-700`

## Anti-Patterns to Avoid

❌ **Don't** put business logic in UI components
❌ **Don't** directly import data in components (use props)
❌ **Don't** use inline styles (use Tailwind classes)
❌ **Don't** forget error boundaries
❌ **Don't** skip TypeScript types
❌ **Don't** hardcode values that should be configurable

✅ **Do** keep components focused and single-purpose
✅ **Do** use proper TypeScript interfaces
✅ **Do** handle loading and error states
✅ **Do** make components reusable
✅ **Do** follow existing patterns
✅ **Do** update this doc when adding components

## Related Documentation

- **`/src/pages/CONTEXT.md`** - Page components
- **`/src/utils/CONTEXT.md`** - Error handling utilities
- **`/PROJECT_CONTEXT.md`** - Overall architecture

## Recent Changes

**v2.0.0** (Dec 24, 2025)
- Added `ErrorDisplay` component for centralized error UI
- Updated `Navigation` to use error handling for links loading
- Improved TypeScript types across all components

---

**Last Updated**: December 24, 2025
**Maintainer**: Development Team

Commit message:

docs: Add mandatory CONTEXT.md update rule to all documentation
NEW GROUND RULE #5: Always update CONTEXT.md after confirming stability

Added to:
- PROJECT_CONTEXT.md - Main rule with detailed workflow
- src/CONTEXT.md - Overview reminder
- src/components/CONTEXT.md - Component-specific reminder
- src/utils/CONTEXT.md - Utility documentation workflow
- src/pages/CONTEXT.md - Page modification workflow
- src/data/CONTEXT.md - Content addition workflow

Rule Details:
- Make changes → Test app → Confirm stable → Update CONTEXT.md
- Document new functions, components, patterns
- Mark TODO tasks as ✅ COMPLETED with date
- Update compliance scores if improved
- This is MANDATORY - part of development workflow

Benefits:
- Ensures CONTEXT.md files stay current
- LLMs can discover and reuse existing code
- Prevents code duplication
- Maintains compliance tracking
- Creates self-documenting codebase

Workflow Example:
1. Create contentLoader.ts utility
2. Test with npm run dev
3. Confirm app works
4. Update utils/CONTEXT.md with new utility docs
5. Commit with updated CONTEXT.md

src/components/CONTEXT.md, after:

# Components Directory Context

This directory contains reusable React components used throughout the application.

## 🚨 BEFORE Creating New Components

**LLMs: Follow these steps BEFORE creating any new component:**

1. ✅ **Search for existing components first**
   ```
   grep_search: "export default function" in src/components/
   semantic_search: "component that displays [describe functionality]"
   ```

2. ✅ **Check if existing component can be extended**
   - Can you add a prop instead of creating new component?
   - Can you use composition (children props)?
   - Can you extract shared logic to a utility function?

3. ✅ **If creating new component:**
   - Make it generic and reusable (use props for customization)
   - Add TypeScript interface for props
   - Include error boundaries if rendering dynamic content
   - Follow naming convention: PascalCase (e.g., `ErrorDisplay.tsx`)
   - Export as default function

4. ✅ **Error Handling in Components**
   - Wrap renders with try-catch if processing external data
   - Use `<ErrorDisplay />` for error states
   - Provide fallback UI if content fails to load

5. ✅ **Update This CONTEXT.md After Changes**
   - After creating/modifying components and confirming app is stable
   - Document new component patterns and props
   - Add to components inventory table
   - Update compliance scores
   - **MANDATORY** - Always update docs with stable code

## Purpose

Components are self-contained, reusable UI elements that can be imported and used in multiple pages or other components. They follow React best practices and maintain consistent styling with the glassmorphism design system.

## Current Adherence Status

✅ **Excellent (95%)**: All components are reusable with props  
✅ **Excellent (95%)**: ErrorDisplay component used consistently  
✅ **Excellent (95%)**: TypeScript interfaces defined for all props  
✅ **Good (90%)**: Error boundary pattern followed  

**No issues found** - Components follow all LLM coding principles

## Components Inventory

| Component | Reusable | Generic Props | Error Handling | Status |
|-----------|----------|---------------|----------------|--------|
| ErrorDisplay.tsx | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Built-in | 95% |
| CodeBlock.tsx | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 90% |
| Navigation.tsx | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 90% |
| Footer.tsx | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | ✅ Yes | 85% |

**Average Compliance**: 90% - Excellent

## Key Files

### Core UI Components
- **`CodeBlock.tsx`** - Syntax-highlighted code display with copy functionality
- **`ErrorDisplay.tsx`** - Centralized error UI with compact/full modes and retry buttons
- **`Navigation.tsx`** - Main navigation bar with mega menu, topics dropdown, and links

## Component Patterns

### 1. Props Interface Pattern
```typescript
interface ComponentProps {
  prop1: string;
  prop2?: number;  // Optional props use ?
  onAction?: () => void;  // Event handlers
}

export default function Component({ prop1, prop2, onAction }: ComponentProps) {
  // Component logic
}
```

### 2. Error Handling Pattern
All components should handle errors gracefully:
```typescript
import { ErrorHandler, ErrorType } from '../utils/errorHandler';
import ErrorDisplay from './ErrorDisplay';

// Use try-catch for rendering errors
try {
  return <div>...</div>;
} catch (err) {
  return <ErrorDisplay error={err} />;
}
```

### 3. Styling Pattern
- Use Tailwind CSS classes
- Follow glassmorphism design system
- Use color palette from design system:
  - Backgrounds: `slate-950`, `slate-900`, `slate-800`
  - Accents: `blue-400`, `cyan-400`
  - Borders: `slate-700/50` (semi-transparent)

### 4. State Management
- Keep component state local with `useState`
- Pass state up via callbacks
- Don't store derived state

## Dependencies

### Internal
- `../utils/errorHandler` - Error handling utilities
- `../data/**/*.json` - Content data (Navigation only)

### External
- `lucide-react` - Icon components
- `react` - Core React functionality

## Component Responsibilities

### CodeBlock
- **Purpose**: Display syntax-highlighted code
- **Features**: Copy to clipboard, title support
- **Props**: `title?: string`, `children: string`
- **Styling**: Dark code block with syntax highlighting

### ErrorDisplay
- **Purpose**: Show user-friendly error messages
- **Features**: Compact/full modes, retry buttons, categorized errors
- **Props**: `error`, `onRetry?`, `showDetails?`, `compact?`
- **Usage**: Render errors instead of crashing

### Navigation
- **Purpose**: Main app navigation and routing
- **Features**: 
  - Mega menu with 9 QA topics
  - Dynamic links loading from JSON
  - Mobile hamburger menu
  - Sticky header with blur effect
- **Props**: `activeTab`, `setActiveTab`, `setSelectedTopic`
- **State**: Menu open/closed, topics dropdown, links array
- **Error Handling**: Loads links with fallback on failure

## How to Add a New Component

### Step 1: Create the file
```bash
touch src/components/NewComponent.tsx
```

### Step 2: Set up the structure
```typescript
import { useState } from 'react';
import { Icon } from 'lucide-react';

interface NewComponentProps {
  // Define props
}

export default function NewComponent({ }: NewComponentProps) {
  // State
  const [state, setState] = useState<Type>(initialValue);
  
  // Handlers
  const handleAction = () => {
    // Logic
  };
  
  // Render
  return (
    <div className="bg-slate-800/70 backdrop-blur-xl rounded-2xl p-6 border border-slate-700/50">
      {/* Content */}
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Step 3: Export and use
```typescript
// In parent component
import NewComponent from '../components/NewComponent';

<NewComponent prop1="value" />
```

### Step 4: Update this CONTEXT.md
Add your component to the "Key Files" section above.

## Common Modifications

### Adding a new icon to Navigation
1. Import from `lucide-react`
2. Add to topics array or use in UI
3. Follow existing icon usage patterns

### Changing Navigation links
1. Modify `/src/data/links/links.json`
2. No code changes needed (loaded dynamically)

### Modifying error display styles
1. Edit `ErrorDisplay.tsx` component
2. Update both compact and full modes
3. Maintain icon and color consistency

### Adding new code language to CodeBlock
1. Update syntax highlighting logic in `CodeBlock.tsx`
2. Add language-specific styles if needed

## Testing Guidelines

When modifying components:
1. Test in isolation (if possible)
2. Test with different prop combinations
3. Test error states
4. Test mobile responsive behavior
5. Verify keyboard navigation
6. Check accessibility (ARIA labels)

## Styling Guidelines

### Layout
- Use flexbox/grid for layouts
- Responsive with `md:`, `lg:` prefixes
- Mobile-first approach

### Spacing
- Consistent padding: `p-4`, `p-6`, `p-8`
- Gaps: `gap-2`, `gap-3`, `gap-4`
- Margins: `mb-2`, `mb-4`, `mb-6`

### Colors (Dark Theme)
```typescript
// Backgrounds
bg-slate-950      // Darkest
bg-slate-900      // Dark
bg-slate-800/70   // Translucent
bg-slate-700/50   // Borders

// Text
text-white        // Headings
text-slate-300    // Body
text-slate-400    // Muted

// Accents
text-blue-400     // Primary
text-cyan-400     // Secondary
text-green-400    // Success
text-red-400      // Error
```

### Effects
- Backdrop blur: `backdrop-blur-xl`
- Shadows: `shadow-2xl`, `shadow-blue-500/20`
- Transitions: `transition-all duration-300`
- Hover states: `hover:scale-105`, `hover:bg-slate-700`

## Anti-Patterns to Avoid

❌ **Don't** put business logic in UI components
❌ **Don't** directly import data in components (use props)
❌ **Don't** use inline styles (use Tailwind classes)
❌ **Don't** forget error boundaries
❌ **Don't** skip TypeScript types
❌ **Don't** hardcode values that should be configurable

✅ **Do** keep components focused and single-purpose
✅ **Do** use proper TypeScript interfaces
✅ **Do** handle loading and error states
✅ **Do** make components reusable
✅ **Do** follow existing patterns
✅ **Do** update this doc when adding components

## Related Documentation

- **`/src/pages/CONTEXT.md`** - Page components
- **`/src/utils/CONTEXT.md`** - Error handling utilities
- **`/PROJECT_CONTEXT.md`** - Overall architecture

## Recent Changes

**v2.0.0** (Dec 24, 2025)
- Added `ErrorDisplay` component for centralized error UI
- Updated `Navigation` to use error handling for links loading
- Improved TypeScript types across all components

---

**Last Updated**: December 24, 2025
**Maintainer**: Development Team
