src/data/CONTEXT.md, before:

# Data Directory

## 🚨 For LLMs Loading This Content

**Always use centralized utilities - NEVER raw fetch:**

```typescript
// ✅ CORRECT: loadJsonFile has retry + error handling
const { data, error } = await loadJsonFile('/src/data/typescript/lessons/lesson.json');

// ❌ WRONG: Raw fetch (no error handling, will crash)
const response = await fetch('/src/data/...');
const data = await response.json();
```

## Purpose
Contains all JSON content files for lessons, cheatsheets, examples, and configuration. This is the content layer of the application - pure data with no logic.

## Directory Structure

```
data/
├── links/
│   └── links.json          # External resource links
│
└── typescript/             # ✅ COMPLETE (48 files)
    ├── lessons/            # 16 detailed tutorial files
    ├── cheatsheet/         # 16 quick reference files
    └── examples/           # 16 practical example files
```

## Planned Topics (🚧 Not Yet Created)
- `test-cases/` - QA test case writing
- `api-testing/` - API testing methodologies
- `playwright/` - E2E testing with Playwright
- `appium/` - Mobile app testing
- `cicd/` - CI/CD pipelines
- `docker/` - Containerization
- `n8n/` - Workflow automation
- `llm-testing/` - LLM application testing

---

## JSON Schema Documentation

### 1. Links Configuration (`links/links.json`)

```json
{
  "links": [
    {
      "name": "Display Name",
      "url": "https://example.com",
      "tooltip": "Descriptive text shown on hover"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Fields**:
- `name` **(required)** - Link text displayed in UI
- `url` **(required)** - Full URL including protocol
- `tooltip` **(required)** - Helper text for context

**Usage**: Loaded by Navigation component with error handling

---

### 2. Lesson Files (`typescript/lessons/*.json`)

Comprehensive tutorial content with multiple sections.

```json
{
  "id": "lesson-unique-id",
  "title": "Lesson Title",
  "description": "What students will learn",
  "sections": [
    {
      "title": "Section Title",
      
      // Text Content
      "content": "Main explanation text",
      "explanation": "Detailed explanation",
      "analogy": "Real-world comparison",
      "note": "Important note",
      "warning": "Warning message",
      "bestPractice": "Recommended approach",
      
      // Code Examples
      "code": "Single code block",
      "example": {
        "code": "Code string",
        "explanation": "What it does"
      },
      "examples": [
        {
          "code": "Code string",
          "explanation": "Explanation",
          "title": "Example title"
        }
      ],
      "codeBlocks": [
        {
          "title": "Block title",
          "code": "Code string",
          "description": "Description"
        }
      ],
      
      // Lists
      "keyPoints": ["Point 1", "Point 2"],
      "benefits": ["Benefit 1", "Benefit 2"],
      "practices": ["Practice 1", "Practice 2"],
      "useCases": ["Use case 1", "Use case 2"],
      "commonOperations": ["Op 1", "Op 2"],
      
      // When to Use (string OR array)
      "whenToUse": "Single use case",
      // OR
      "whenToUse": ["Use case 1", "Use case 2"],
      
      // Problem/Solution Pattern
      "problem": {
        "description": "Problem description",
        "code": "Problematic code",
        "issue": "What's wrong"
      },
      "solution": {
        "description": "Solution description",
        "code": "Fixed code",
        "benefit": "Why it's better"
      },
      
      // Structured Content
      "steps": [
        {
          "step": "Step description",
          "description": "Details",
          "command": "CLI command",
          "explanation": "Why this step"
        }
      ],
      "process": ["Step 1", "Step 2"],
      "workflow": [
        {
          "phase": "Phase name",
          "description": "What happens"
        }
      ],
      
      // Quick Reference (for quick-reference.json)
      "quick_ref": [
        {
          "syntax": "code syntax",
          "desc": "Description"
        }
      ],
      
      // Tips & Tricks
      "tips": [
        { "tip": "Tip text" }
        // OR just strings
      ],
      
      // Shortcuts
      "shortcuts": [
        {
          "action": "Action name",
          "mac": "Cmd + K",
          "win": "Ctrl + K"
        }
      ],
      
      // CLI Commands
      "commands": [
        {
          "command": "command text",
          "desc": "What it does"
        }
      ],
      
      // Common Mistakes
      "mistakes": [
        {
          "mistake": "What people do wrong",
          "fix": "How to fix it"
        }
      ],
      
      // Resources
      "resources": [
        {
          "name": "Resource name",
          "url": "https://..."
        }
        // OR just strings
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

**Field Types**:
- **Text**: `string`
- **List**: `string[]`
- **Object**: `{ key: value }`
- **Array of Objects**: `[{ }, { }]`
- **Flexible**: Some fields accept string OR array

**Rendering**: All fields are optional. Renderer checks for presence before displaying.

---

### 3. Cheatsheet Files (`typescript/cheatsheet/*.json`)

Quick reference content with code blocks and tips.

```json
{
  "id": "cheatsheet-id",
  "title": "Topic Title",
  "explanation": "Brief overview of the topic",
  "codeBlocks": [
    {
      "title": "Example Title",
      "code": "Code syntax",
      "description": "What it does"
    }
  ],
  "keyPoints": [
    "Key point 1",
    "Key point 2"
  ],
  "tip": "Pro tip for this topic"
}
```

**Fields**:
- `id` **(required)** - Unique identifier
- `title` **(required)** - Display title
- `explanation` **(optional)** - Overview text
- `codeBlocks` **(optional)** - Array of code examples
- `keyPoints` **(optional)** - Important points list
- `tip` **(optional)** - Single pro tip

---

### 4. Examples Files (`typescript/examples/*.json`)

Practical code examples with difficulty levels.

```json
{
  "id": "examples-id",
  "title": "Examples Title",
  "description": "What these examples demonstrate",
  "examples": [
    {
      "title": "Example Title",
      "description": "What this example shows",
      "difficulty": "beginner",  // or "intermediate", "advanced"
      "code": "Full code example",
      "explanation": "Line-by-line explanation"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Fields**:
- `id` **(required)** - Unique identifier
- `title` **(required)** - Display title
- `description` **(optional)** - Overview
- `examples` **(required)** - Array of examples
  - `title` **(required)** - Example name
  - `description` **(optional)** - What it shows
  - `difficulty` **(optional)** - beginner/intermediate/advanced
  - `code` **(required)** - Full code
  - `explanation` **(optional)** - Detailed explanation

---

## File Naming Conventions

### Lessons
- Use kebab-case: `getting-started.json`
- Descriptive names: `type-guards.json`
- Match topic: Same name across lesson/cheatsheet/examples

### IDs
- Prefix with type: `lesson-id`, `cheatsheet-id`, `examples-id`
- Use kebab-case: `lesson-getting-started`
- Must be unique within type

---

## Content Creation Guidelines

### Writing Lessons

1. **Start with the problem**
   - Why does this concept exist?
   - What problem does it solve?

2. **Use analogies**
   - Real-world comparisons
   - Simple, relatable examples

3. **Show, don't tell**
   - Code examples for every concept
   - Before/after comparisons

4. **Progressive complexity**
   - Start simple
   - Build on previous concepts
   - End with advanced patterns

5. **Common mistakes**
   - What beginners typically get wrong
   - How to avoid pitfalls

### Code Examples Best Practices

```typescript
// ❌ Bad: No context
const x = 5;

// ✅ Good: Descriptive with comments
// Define the maximum retry attempts
const MAX_RETRIES = 5;
```

- Add comments explaining "why"
- Use realistic variable names
- Keep examples focused
- Show complete, runnable code

### Writing Tips

- Keep paragraphs short (3-5 sentences)
- Use bullet points for lists
- Bold important terms
- Include practical use cases
- Reference other lessons when relevant

---

## How to Add New Content

### Adding a New Lesson

**Step 1**: Create JSON files
```bash
cd src/data/typescript
touch lessons/new-topic.json
touch cheatsheet/new-topic.json  
touch examples/new-topic.json
```

**Step 2**: Fill in content using schema above

**Step 3**: Update `Lessons.tsx` imports
```typescript
const LESSON_IMPORTS = {
  // ... existing
  'new-topic.json': () => loadJsonFile('/src/data/typescript/lessons/new-topic.json'),
};

const CHEATSHEET_IMPORTS = {
  // ... existing
  'new-topic.json': () => loadJsonFile('/src/data/typescript/cheatsheet/new-topic.json'),
};

const EXAMPLES_IMPORTS = {
  // ... existing
  'new-topic.json': () => loadJsonFile('/src/data/typescript/examples/new-topic.json'),
};
```

**Step 4**: Add metadata
```typescript
const LESSONS: LessonMetadata[] = [
  // ... existing
  {
    id: 'new-topic',
    title: 'New Topic Title',
    description: 'Brief description',
    lessonFile: 'new-topic.json',
    cheatsheetFile: 'new-topic.json',
    examplesFile: 'new-topic.json'
  }
];
```

**Step 5**: Test
- Load the lesson in UI
- Verify all fields render correctly
- Check for errors in console

### Adding a New Topic (e.g., Playwright)

**Step 1**: Create directory structure
```bash
mkdir -p src/data/playwright/{lessons,cheatsheet,examples}
```

**Step 2**: Create content files (16 lessons recommended)
```bash
cd src/data/playwright/lessons
touch getting-started.json basic-concepts.json ...
```

**Step 3**: Update `Lessons.tsx` with new topic support
- Add topic to switch statement
- Create import maps for new topic
- Update topic selector

**Step 4**: Update Navigation
- Add new topic to topics array
- Assign icon and color

**Step 5**: Update this CONTEXT.md
- Move topic from "Planned" to main structure
- Document any topic-specific patterns

---

## Validation

### JSON Validation Rules

1. **Must be valid JSON**
   - No trailing commas
   - Proper quote escaping
   - Valid UTF-8

2. **Required fields**
   - `id`, `title` are required
   - Check schema for other required fields

3. **Field types**
   - Strings for text
   - Arrays for lists
   - Objects for structured data

4. **No breaking changes**
   - Don't remove existing fields
   - Add new fields instead
   - Maintain backwards compatibility

### Testing JSON Files

```bash
# Validate JSON syntax
cat file.json | jq .

# Check specific fields
cat file.json | jq '.sections[].title'

# Count sections
cat file.json | jq '.sections | length'
```

### Using loadJsonFile Validation

```typescript
const { data, error } = await loadJsonFile<LessonData>(
  '/path/to/file.json',
  (data) => {
    // Validation function
    return (
      typeof data.id === 'string' &&
      typeof data.title === 'string' &&
      Array.isArray(data.sections) &&
      data.sections.length > 0
    );
  }
);

if (error?.type === ErrorType.VALIDATION) {
  console.error('Invalid JSON structure');
}
```

---

## Content Organization Principles

### 16 Lesson Standard
Each topic should have approximately 16 lessons:
1. Getting Started
2-4. Basics (fundamental concepts)
5-9. Intermediate (common patterns)
10-13. Advanced (complex scenarios)
14. Configuration
15. Common Patterns/Errors
16. Quick Reference

### Topic Independence
- Each topic folder is self-contained
- No cross-topic dependencies
- Can be developed independently

### Consistency
- Same structure across all topics
- Same lesson naming patterns
- Same field names and types

---

## Performance Considerations

### File Size
- Keep JSON files under 100KB
- Split large lessons into smaller ones
- Use arrays efficiently

### Loading Strategy
- Lazy load (on-demand)
- Parallel loading for 3 file types
- Cache in component state

### Images/Assets
- Not stored in JSON (use URLs)
- External hosting recommended
- Optimize before linking

---

## Migration & Updates

### Updating Existing Content

1. **Don't break existing structure**
   - Add new fields, don't remove old ones
   - Maintain existing field names
   - Keep IDs stable

2. **Version if needed**
   - Add `version` field if schema changes
   - Handle multiple versions in renderer

3. **Test after updates**
   - Load in UI to verify
   - Check all field types render
   - Verify no console errors

### Batch Updates

```bash
# Find and replace across files
cd src/data/typescript/lessons
sed -i '' 's/oldText/newText/g' *.json

# Validate all after changes
for file in *.json; do
  echo "Validating $file"
  cat $file | jq . > /dev/null || echo "ERROR in $file"
done
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### Content not showing
- Verify JSON is valid (use `jq`)
- Check field names match schema
- Ensure file path is correct in imports
- Look for errors in browser console

### Field not rendering
- Check if field type is supported in renderer
- Verify field name spelling
- Check for TypeScript errors
- Add field support to `Lessons.tsx` if new

### Performance issues
- Check file sizes (use `ls -lh`)
- Split large files
- Optimize JSON structure

---

## Best Practices

### ✅ Do's

1. **Validate JSON before committing**
2. **Use descriptive IDs and titles**
3. **Include examples for every concept**
4. **Write for beginners**
5. **Keep content focused**
6. **Update docs when changing schema**

### ❌ Don'ts

1. **Don't use hardcoded paths in JSON**
2. **Don't include HTML in text fields**
3. **Don't duplicate content**
4. **Don't break existing field names**
5. **Don't skip validation**

---

## Related Documentation

- **`/src/pages/CONTEXT.md`** - How content is rendered
- **`/src/utils/CONTEXT.md`** - How content is loaded
- **`/PROJECT_CONTEXT.md`** - Overall content strategy

---

**Last Updated**: December 24, 2025
**Maintainer**: Content Team

Commit message:

docs: Add mandatory CONTEXT.md update rule to all documentation
NEW GROUND RULE #5: Always update CONTEXT.md after confirming stability

Added to:
- PROJECT_CONTEXT.md - Main rule with detailed workflow
- src/CONTEXT.md - Overview reminder
- src/components/CONTEXT.md - Component-specific reminder
- src/utils/CONTEXT.md - Utility documentation workflow
- src/pages/CONTEXT.md - Page modification workflow
- src/data/CONTEXT.md - Content addition workflow

Rule Details:
- Make changes → Test app → Confirm stable → Update CONTEXT.md
- Document new functions, components, patterns
- Mark TODO tasks as ✅ COMPLETED with date
- Update compliance scores if improved
- This is MANDATORY - part of development workflow

Benefits:
- Ensures CONTEXT.md files stay current
- LLMs can discover and reuse existing code
- Prevents code duplication
- Maintains compliance tracking
- Creates self-documenting codebase

Workflow Example:
1. Create contentLoader.ts utility
2. Test with npm run dev
3. Confirm app works
4. Update utils/CONTEXT.md with new utility docs
5. Commit with updated CONTEXT.md

src/data/CONTEXT.md, after:

# Data Directory

## 🚨 For LLMs Loading This Content

**Always use centralized utilities - NEVER raw fetch:**

```typescript
// ✅ CORRECT: loadJsonFile has retry + error handling
const { data, error } = await loadJsonFile('/src/data/typescript/lessons/lesson.json');

// ❌ WRONG: Raw fetch (no error handling, will crash)
const response = await fetch('/src/data/...');
const data = await response.json();
```

## 🔄 Update This File When Adding Content

**When adding new JSON files or topics**:
1. Add content files to appropriate directory
2. Test loading in app - confirm stable
3. Update this CONTEXT.md:
   - Document new JSON schemas
   - Add new field types
   - Update directory structure diagram
   - Add validation rules
4. Commit with updated documentation

**Keeps content documentation in sync with actual files!**

## Purpose
Contains all JSON content files for lessons, cheatsheets, examples, and configuration. This is the content layer of the application - pure data with no logic.

## Directory Structure

```
data/
├── links/
│   └── links.json          # External resource links
│
└── typescript/             # ✅ COMPLETE (48 files)
    ├── lessons/            # 16 detailed tutorial files
    ├── cheatsheet/         # 16 quick reference files
    └── examples/           # 16 practical example files
```

## Planned Topics (🚧 Not Yet Created)
- `test-cases/` - QA test case writing
- `api-testing/` - API testing methodologies
- `playwright/` - E2E testing with Playwright
- `appium/` - Mobile app testing
- `cicd/` - CI/CD pipelines
- `docker/` - Containerization
- `n8n/` - Workflow automation
- `llm-testing/` - LLM application testing

---

## JSON Schema Documentation

### 1. Links Configuration (`links/links.json`)

```json
{
  "links": [
    {
      "name": "Display Name",
      "url": "https://example.com",
      "tooltip": "Descriptive text shown on hover"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Fields**:
- `name` **(required)** - Link text displayed in UI
- `url` **(required)** - Full URL including protocol
- `tooltip` **(required)** - Helper text for context

**Usage**: Loaded by Navigation component with error handling

---

### 2. Lesson Files (`typescript/lessons/*.json`)

Comprehensive tutorial content with multiple sections.

```json
{
  "id": "lesson-unique-id",
  "title": "Lesson Title",
  "description": "What students will learn",
  "sections": [
    {
      "title": "Section Title",
      
      // Text Content
      "content": "Main explanation text",
      "explanation": "Detailed explanation",
      "analogy": "Real-world comparison",
      "note": "Important note",
      "warning": "Warning message",
      "bestPractice": "Recommended approach",
      
      // Code Examples
      "code": "Single code block",
      "example": {
        "code": "Code string",
        "explanation": "What it does"
      },
      "examples": [
        {
          "code": "Code string",
          "explanation": "Explanation",
          "title": "Example title"
        }
      ],
      "codeBlocks": [
        {
          "title": "Block title",
          "code": "Code string",
          "description": "Description"
        }
      ],
      
      // Lists
      "keyPoints": ["Point 1", "Point 2"],
      "benefits": ["Benefit 1", "Benefit 2"],
      "practices": ["Practice 1", "Practice 2"],
      "useCases": ["Use case 1", "Use case 2"],
      "commonOperations": ["Op 1", "Op 2"],
      
      // When to Use (string OR array)
      "whenToUse": "Single use case",
      // OR
      "whenToUse": ["Use case 1", "Use case 2"],
      
      // Problem/Solution Pattern
      "problem": {
        "description": "Problem description",
        "code": "Problematic code",
        "issue": "What's wrong"
      },
      "solution": {
        "description": "Solution description",
        "code": "Fixed code",
        "benefit": "Why it's better"
      },
      
      // Structured Content
      "steps": [
        {
          "step": "Step description",
          "description": "Details",
          "command": "CLI command",
          "explanation": "Why this step"
        }
      ],
      "process": ["Step 1", "Step 2"],
      "workflow": [
        {
          "phase": "Phase name",
          "description": "What happens"
        }
      ],
      
      // Quick Reference (for quick-reference.json)
      "quick_ref": [
        {
          "syntax": "code syntax",
          "desc": "Description"
        }
      ],
      
      // Tips & Tricks
      "tips": [
        { "tip": "Tip text" }
        // OR just strings
      ],
      
      // Shortcuts
      "shortcuts": [
        {
          "action": "Action name",
          "mac": "Cmd + K",
          "win": "Ctrl + K"
        }
      ],
      
      // CLI Commands
      "commands": [
        {
          "command": "command text",
          "desc": "What it does"
        }
      ],
      
      // Common Mistakes
      "mistakes": [
        {
          "mistake": "What people do wrong",
          "fix": "How to fix it"
        }
      ],
      
      // Resources
      "resources": [
        {
          "name": "Resource name",
          "url": "https://..."
        }
        // OR just strings
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

**Field Types**:
- **Text**: `string`
- **List**: `string[]`
- **Object**: `{ key: value }`
- **Array of Objects**: `[{ }, { }]`
- **Flexible**: Some fields accept string OR array

**Rendering**: All fields are optional. Renderer checks for presence before displaying.

---

### 3. Cheatsheet Files (`typescript/cheatsheet/*.json`)

Quick reference content with code blocks and tips.

```json
{
  "id": "cheatsheet-id",
  "title": "Topic Title",
  "explanation": "Brief overview of the topic",
  "codeBlocks": [
    {
      "title": "Example Title",
      "code": "Code syntax",
      "description": "What it does"
    }
  ],
  "keyPoints": [
    "Key point 1",
    "Key point 2"
  ],
  "tip": "Pro tip for this topic"
}
```

**Fields**:
- `id` **(required)** - Unique identifier
- `title` **(required)** - Display title
- `explanation` **(optional)** - Overview text
- `codeBlocks` **(optional)** - Array of code examples
- `keyPoints` **(optional)** - Important points list
- `tip` **(optional)** - Single pro tip

---

### 4. Examples Files (`typescript/examples/*.json`)

Practical code examples with difficulty levels.

```json
{
  "id": "examples-id",
  "title": "Examples Title",
  "description": "What these examples demonstrate",
  "examples": [
    {
      "title": "Example Title",
      "description": "What this example shows",
      "difficulty": "beginner",  // or "intermediate", "advanced"
      "code": "Full code example",
      "explanation": "Line-by-line explanation"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Fields**:
- `id` **(required)** - Unique identifier
- `title` **(required)** - Display title
- `description` **(optional)** - Overview
- `examples` **(required)** - Array of examples
  - `title` **(required)** - Example name
  - `description` **(optional)** - What it shows
  - `difficulty` **(optional)** - beginner/intermediate/advanced
  - `code` **(required)** - Full code
  - `explanation` **(optional)** - Detailed explanation

---

## File Naming Conventions

### Lessons
- Use kebab-case: `getting-started.json`
- Descriptive names: `type-guards.json`
- Match topic: Same name across lesson/cheatsheet/examples

### IDs
- Prefix with type: `lesson-id`, `cheatsheet-id`, `examples-id`
- Use kebab-case: `lesson-getting-started`
- Must be unique within type

---

## Content Creation Guidelines

### Writing Lessons

1. **Start with the problem**
   - Why does this concept exist?
   - What problem does it solve?

2. **Use analogies**
   - Real-world comparisons
   - Simple, relatable examples

3. **Show, don't tell**
   - Code examples for every concept
   - Before/after comparisons

4. **Progressive complexity**
   - Start simple
   - Build on previous concepts
   - End with advanced patterns

5. **Common mistakes**
   - What beginners typically get wrong
   - How to avoid pitfalls

### Code Examples Best Practices

```typescript
// ❌ Bad: No context
const x = 5;

// ✅ Good: Descriptive with comments
// Define the maximum retry attempts
const MAX_RETRIES = 5;
```

- Add comments explaining "why"
- Use realistic variable names
- Keep examples focused
- Show complete, runnable code

### Writing Tips

- Keep paragraphs short (3-5 sentences)
- Use bullet points for lists
- Bold important terms
- Include practical use cases
- Reference other lessons when relevant

---

## How to Add New Content

### Adding a New Lesson

**Step 1**: Create JSON files
```bash
cd src/data/typescript
touch lessons/new-topic.json
touch cheatsheet/new-topic.json  
touch examples/new-topic.json
```

**Step 2**: Fill in content using schema above

**Step 3**: Update `Lessons.tsx` imports
```typescript
const LESSON_IMPORTS = {
  // ... existing
  'new-topic.json': () => loadJsonFile('/src/data/typescript/lessons/new-topic.json'),
};

const CHEATSHEET_IMPORTS = {
  // ... existing
  'new-topic.json': () => loadJsonFile('/src/data/typescript/cheatsheet/new-topic.json'),
};

const EXAMPLES_IMPORTS = {
  // ... existing
  'new-topic.json': () => loadJsonFile('/src/data/typescript/examples/new-topic.json'),
};
```

**Step 4**: Add metadata
```typescript
const LESSONS: LessonMetadata[] = [
  // ... existing
  {
    id: 'new-topic',
    title: 'New Topic Title',
    description: 'Brief description',
    lessonFile: 'new-topic.json',
    cheatsheetFile: 'new-topic.json',
    examplesFile: 'new-topic.json'
  }
];
```

**Step 5**: Test
- Load the lesson in UI
- Verify all fields render correctly
- Check for errors in console

### Adding a New Topic (e.g., Playwright)

**Step 1**: Create directory structure
```bash
mkdir -p src/data/playwright/{lessons,cheatsheet,examples}
```

**Step 2**: Create content files (16 lessons recommended)
```bash
cd src/data/playwright/lessons
touch getting-started.json basic-concepts.json ...
```

**Step 3**: Update `Lessons.tsx` with new topic support
- Add topic to switch statement
- Create import maps for new topic
- Update topic selector

**Step 4**: Update Navigation
- Add new topic to topics array
- Assign icon and color

**Step 5**: Update this CONTEXT.md
- Move topic from "Planned" to main structure
- Document any topic-specific patterns

---

## Validation

### JSON Validation Rules

1. **Must be valid JSON**
   - No trailing commas
   - Proper quote escaping
   - Valid UTF-8

2. **Required fields**
   - `id`, `title` are required
   - Check schema for other required fields

3. **Field types**
   - Strings for text
   - Arrays for lists
   - Objects for structured data

4. **No breaking changes**
   - Don't remove existing fields
   - Add new fields instead
   - Maintain backwards compatibility

### Testing JSON Files

```bash
# Validate JSON syntax
cat file.json | jq .

# Check specific fields
cat file.json | jq '.sections[].title'

# Count sections
cat file.json | jq '.sections | length'
```

### Using loadJsonFile Validation

```typescript
const { data, error } = await loadJsonFile<LessonData>(
  '/path/to/file.json',
  (data) => {
    // Validation function
    return (
      typeof data.id === 'string' &&
      typeof data.title === 'string' &&
      Array.isArray(data.sections) &&
      data.sections.length > 0
    );
  }
);

if (error?.type === ErrorType.VALIDATION) {
  console.error('Invalid JSON structure');
}
```

---

## Content Organization Principles

### 16 Lesson Standard
Each topic should have approximately 16 lessons:
1. Getting Started
2-4. Basics (fundamental concepts)
5-9. Intermediate (common patterns)
10-13. Advanced (complex scenarios)
14. Configuration
15. Common Patterns/Errors
16. Quick Reference

### Topic Independence
- Each topic folder is self-contained
- No cross-topic dependencies
- Can be developed independently

### Consistency
- Same structure across all topics
- Same lesson naming patterns
- Same field names and types

---

## Performance Considerations

### File Size
- Keep JSON files under 100KB
- Split large lessons into smaller ones
- Use arrays efficiently

### Loading Strategy
- Lazy load (on-demand)
- Parallel loading for 3 file types
- Cache in component state

### Images/Assets
- Not stored in JSON (use URLs)
- External hosting recommended
- Optimize before linking

---

## Migration & Updates

### Updating Existing Content

1. **Don't break existing structure**
   - Add new fields, don't remove old ones
   - Maintain existing field names
   - Keep IDs stable

2. **Version if needed**
   - Add `version` field if schema changes
   - Handle multiple versions in renderer

3. **Test after updates**
   - Load in UI to verify
   - Check all field types render
   - Verify no console errors

### Batch Updates

```bash
# Find and replace across files
cd src/data/typescript/lessons
sed -i '' 's/oldText/newText/g' *.json

# Validate all after changes
for file in *.json; do
  echo "Validating $file"
  cat $file | jq . > /dev/null || echo "ERROR in $file"
done
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### Content not showing
- Verify JSON is valid (use `jq`)
- Check field names match schema
- Ensure file path is correct in imports
- Look for errors in browser console

### Field not rendering
- Check if field type is supported in renderer
- Verify field name spelling
- Check for TypeScript errors
- Add field support to `Lessons.tsx` if new

### Performance issues
- Check file sizes (use `ls -lh`)
- Split large files
- Optimize JSON structure

---

## Best Practices

### ✅ Do's

1. **Validate JSON before committing**
2. **Use descriptive IDs and titles**
3. **Include examples for every concept**
4. **Write for beginners**
5. **Keep content focused**
6. **Update docs when changing schema**

### ❌ Don'ts

1. **Don't use hardcoded paths in JSON**
2. **Don't include HTML in text fields**
3. **Don't duplicate content**
4. **Don't break existing field names**
5. **Don't skip validation**

---

## Related Documentation

- **`/src/pages/CONTEXT.md`** - How content is rendered
- **`/src/utils/CONTEXT.md`** - How content is loaded
- **`/PROJECT_CONTEXT.md`** - Overall content strategy

---

**Last Updated**: December 24, 2025
**Maintainer**: Content Team
